Hi and welcome back.
In this video we're going to look at
how to do multiple things at once,
or sort of at once,
without using either threads or processes.
As you can see, I've created a file here
called generators.py,
so that should give you a hint
as to what we're going to try
to do with this file.
We've looked at generators before;
let me create an example of a generator.
This one is going to be called countdown.
So we're going to take a number
that we're going to start counting down from.
I'm going to say while n is greater than zero,
and we're gonna yield n,
remember that gives the value back to the core
and we're going to subtract one from it.
So, if we have a countdown
like c equals countdown that starts from 10,
we can then do something like, print, next, of c.
This is sort of nothing new here.
What this is doing is
we're creating a new generator
and as soon as we call next,
it starts running the generator
and it goes up to the yield
and it gives back the value that we yielded.
So in this case it's gonna give back 10,
and then when we print next again,
it's going to continue running
all the way back to the next yield.
So instead of going for 10,
it would start with n as 10,
you subtract one from it
and then it will repeat the loop
and it would yield again n again which would be nine.
So as soon as you arrive at the yield,
the correct word here is the function is suspended.
So when you arrive at a yield,
you get the value that was yielded
and the function is suspended,
there and then when you call next again,
the function resumes.
So very similar to a thread, really,
if you think about it,
'cause the thread can at any point
be suspended or removed from a core
and then it can be brought back
and it continues running where it's left off.
So the generator actually behaves
fairly similar to a thread
in that when you arrive at a yield
you're removing it from the core, if you wish,
then when you press next,
you're sort of bringing it back
and it continues running.
So let's run this file.
I'm going to right-click generators.py and run it,
and as you can see we get 10 and nine,
which is what you sort of expect,
the first next gives you the 10,
then when you go next again,
it continues running up to the next yield
and it gives you nine.
So this is all good.
What if we had,
c1 which is a countdown from 10
and c2 which is a countdown say from 20?
Yeah?
Now you have two tasks,
a countdown that starts counting down from 10,
and one that starts counting down from 20.
What you could do is this.
So here you're printing the next value of c1,
goes up to the yield and gives you 10.
Then you're printing the next value of c2,
which goes down to the yield and gives you 20.
Then you could do this again,
which resumes c1,
subtracts minus one from n,
goes and repeats the loop, and now gives you nine.
That suspends and then you move
over to the next line,
which gives you the next of c2.
So that, instead of being 20,
now you subtract one and you can repeat
and you now yield 19.
Let's run this.
You can see that this is what's happening.
You are running one task,
then you are suspending it,
and you're running another,
and then you're suspending that
and you're going back to the first one.
You're suspending that
and going back to the other one.
This is essentially
some very slow multi-threading
but, without using threads.
Notice there's no import of threads
or anything here.
What you've got is two tasks
yielding control of the main thread to one another.
Think of it as passing the baton in these races.
So if we can do this really quickly,
if we can do c1 and then c2 really, really quickly,
it may look as though
they are running at the same time.
This is essentially the purpose with threads, remember?
You cannot run two threads at once in Python,
but you can slice their time on the CPU
quickly enough that it looks like they're running
at the same time.
So this looks a bit like a hack,
like something that shouldn't really work,
but actually, asynchronous development in Python
is built around this generator.
Not this generator specifically,
but generators as a whole.
So let's look in the next video
at how we can build our first tasks scheduler
using generators instead of threads.
I'll see you there.